# NWP_Land_Sea_Fluxes
*Code and data for Fox et. al. (2026) Riverine Biogeochemical Exports from Major Watersheds
to the Northwest Patagonian Estuarine Network*

*Created by Conner Sage Fox*

*Contributions from Nicholas Fox*

2026-3-25

### Folder structure
```
.
|--results/
|  |--* [gitignored]
|  |--wrts/
|     |--csv/ [gitignored]
|     |--fig/ [gitignored]
|     |--netcdf/ [gitignored]
|--data/
|  |--*
|  |--geospatial/ [gitignored]
|--scripts/
   |--*
   |--wrtds_python/
      |--*
      |--library_folder/ [gitignored]
```  
The `scripts` folder contains Jupyter Notebook files for creating the plots and tables that appear in the paper, as well as .py modules and R scripts to support them. Inside, there is a `wrtds_python` subfolder for the WRTDS workflow, see below.

These notebooks draw their data from the `data` folder, which is mirrored in in GitHub repo. However, its `geospatial` subfolder, which is used by `study_area_overview.ipynb` is not mirrored because it contains large files (over 120MB). You can download the geospatial folder from this Google Drive link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kXfHjTmMm13_guVB2MjKizPx_uT8Rmj1/view?usp=sharing

The outputs of the notebooks show up in `autogenerated_results`. To keep it clean, there is also a `wrtds` subfolder here with `csv` (containing the table outputs, like monthly and annual totals), `fig` (figures), and `netcdf` (intermediate NetCDF files that are collections of the output of the WRTDS process for all river and chemical combinations). 

Running the WRTDS workflow takes 2 steps.

1. run runWRTDS.ipynb . If it fails (kernel restart, etc), there might be an unfortunate value in `data/seeds.csv`. *You may have to pinpoint the river-chemical combo that fails to converge and change that value in seeds.csv to a random number -- rinse and repeat until it works. We will soon add functionality to do this automatically.*
2. run data_post_condensed.ipynb

